[DPE-5530] Hardening Userguide (#145)
canonical/kafka-k8s-operator: docs/explanation/e-hardening.md

Juju superusers responsible for bootstrapping and managing controllers require elevated permissions to manage several kind of resources. For this reason, the 
K8s user used for bootstrapping and managing the deployments should have full permissions, such as: 

* create, delete, patch, and list:
    * namespaces
    * services
    * deployments
    * stateful sets
    * pods
    * PVCs

In general, it is common practice to run Juju using the admin role of K8s, to have full permissions on the Kubernetes cluster. 

#### Juju users

It is very important that juju users are set up with minimal permissions depending on the scope of their operations. 
Please refer to the [User access levels](https://juju.is/docs/juju/user-permissions) documentation for more information on the access level and corresponding abilities 
that the different users can be granted. 

Juju user credentials must be stored securely and rotated regularly to limit the chances of unauthorized access due to credentials leakage.

## Applications

In the following we provide guidance on how to harden your deployment using:

> 1. Base Images
> 2. Kafka and ZooKeeper Security Upgrades
> 3. Encryption 
> 4. Authentication
> 5. Monitoring and Auditing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Base images
2. Charmed operator security upgrades
3. Encryption 
4. Authentication
5. Monitoring and auditing
```

### Base images

Charmed Kafka K8s and Charmed ZooKeeper K8s run on top of rockcraft-based image shipping the Apache Kafka and Apache ZooKeeper 
distribution binaries built by Canonical, and available in the [Kafka release page](https://launchpad.net/kafka-releases) and 
[ZooKeeper release page](https://launchpad.net/zookeeper-releases), respectively. Both images are based on Ubuntu 22.04. 

> The images that can be found in the [Charmed Kafka](https://github.com/canonical/charmed-spark-rock) and 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The images that can be found in the [Charmed Kafka rock](https://github.com/canonical/charmed-spark-rock) and 
```

> [Charmed ZooKeeper](https://github.com/canonical/charmed-zookeeper-rock) Github repositories are used as the base 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Charmed ZooKeeper rock](https://github.com/canonical/charmed-zookeeper-rock) Github repositories are used as the base 
```

To do that, you need to relate Kafka and ZooKeeper charms to one of the TLS certificate operator charms. 
Please refer to the [Charming Security page](https://charmhub.io/topics/security-with-x-509-certificates) for more information on how to select the right certificate
provider for your use-case. 

For more information on encryption setup, see the [How to enable encryption](/t/charmed-kafka-k8s-how-to-enable-encryption/10289) guide.

### Authentication

Charmed Kafka supports the following authentication layers:

1. [SCRAM-based SASL Authentication](/t/charmed-kafka-k8s-how-to-manage-app/10293)
2. [certificate-base Authentication (mTLS)](/t/create-mtls-client-credentials/11079)
3. OAuth Authentication using [Hydra](/t/how-to-connect-to-kafka-using-hydra-as-oidc-provider/14610) or [Google](/t/how-to-connect-to-kafka-using-google-as-oidc-provider/14611)

Each combination of authentication scheme and encryption is associated to the dedicated listener and it maps to a well-defined port. 
Please refer to the [listener reference documentation](/t/charmed-kafka-k8s-documentation-reference-listeners/13270) for more information. 

> ### Monitoring and Auditing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Monitoring and auditing
```

for more information. 

Refer to How-To user guide for more information on:
* [how to integrate the Charmed Kafka deployment with COS](/t/charmed-kafka-k8s-how-to-enable-monitoring/10291)
* [how to customise the alerting rules and dashboards](/t/charmed-kafka-k8s-documentation-how-to-integrate-custom-alerting-rules-and-dashboards/13528)

External user access to Kafka is logged to the `kafka-authorizer.log` that is pushes to [Loki endpoint](https://charmhub.io/loki-k8s) and exposed via [Grafana](https://charmhub.io/grafana), both components being part of the COS stack.
Access denials are logged at INFO level, whereas allowed accesses are logged at DEBUG level. Depending on the auditing needs, 
customize the logging level either for all logs via the [`log_level`](https://charmhub.io/kafka-k8s/configurations?channel=3/stable#log_level) config option or 
only tune the logging level of the `authorizerAppender` in the `log4j.properties` file. Refer to the Reference documentation, for more information about 
the [file system paths](/t/charmed-kafka-k8s-documentation-reference-file-system-paths/13269).

## Additional Resources

> For further information and details on the security and cryptographic specifications used by Charmed Kafka, please refer to the [Security Explanation page](/t/charmed-kafka-k8s-documentation-explanation-security/15715).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information and details on the security and cryptography used by Charmed Kafka, see the [Security Explanation page](/t/charmed-kafka-k8s-documentation-explanation-security/15715).
```
